 start recording it now and oh whoops buggy I'm doing this Phil change presenter if you have I of wings or share your screen okay okay Thomas I gave you presentation yes I got it okay so everybody should be able to see my hummingbird meaning slides now right yes I can see it okay good so I think you're a good shape i should be able to pass the presentation rights around as needed okay and i will be back shortly okay sounds great what thanks okay hi everybody this is the second session of the hummingbird planning meeting so we're going to go through a couple of a couple of initial slides the overall goals for the for this session is to the review both the overall community plans which includes clearly on lap or the hummingbird release and also get some visibility into the following I release hummingbird release is slated for august 2016 the end of it and the ironies is then for end of november 2016 and so the whole idea of this planning meeting is to help make sure that you know we provide nice and transparent view of what our plans are and help people interest in working on various projects to to connect with not only just the own lab team but also with each other we also need to be able to plan for dependencies between the various features and use cases we understand the what the load is to be able to integrate these things together and so that everybody is on the same page so we can come up with proper sequence of steps to have a nice incoherent release and then general the idea of the of the spring of the release planning meeting is to provide a background theme and in a context for interview for planning of individuals king of the sprint the following is the schedule for hummingbird release in terms of the sprints we're going to run to three weeks prints followed by r2 are two weeks Prince to do integration and and to work through the auction process then 80 slight revisions at the tail end of this with respect to when we're going to be cutting the hummingbird branch and in the release process because of the increased turnover now in terms of more contributors and more features being being worked on with gold and I we've actually cut the release branch earlier than we normally do as not to stall development no features on the main master the final release is expected around the first week of of September any questions on this if not then I there will be some slides in here that we may not have speakers to because they were up they were covered in the morning sessions a prison material is not online since it's a really late for Europe so we're going to skip through this I'm just going to briefly outline that the icon eyes the project which is which deals with peering Federation it still continues to be worked on I create net polytechnic of Turin and tata consultancy services and then if you want more detail on on this project you can watch the recording from the from the morning session in terms of em court is there somebody to speak to em court yeah Thomas this is sandy Inara and from verizon I think I talked to a fair of it and of AT&T put this together this work in this just describe the work that's going on in the encode project at this time and one of the main areas of work is networks lighting especially than slicing and what are the areas of work that has been taken up is to come up with the import light version and we are working through what is the hardware and how do we get the difference of the components into it then other things here summarize the same quarter act to work that is going on and what we are dealing with connectionless protocol okay so this is just putting things in that are in progress and not really task 40 knots listed here there were some owners related tasks i think more out of our gear away cover that later okay thank you so pardon the things being a little bit out of order but this is the order that we observed in the morning session so one of the so that this slide right here depict some of the major architectural runway items which which are sort of intended to be used as a over like a course context for planning of the interview areas that a primary focus of is on the first three items for the hummingbird is to be able to and is to be able to complete or at least move further along the yang utilities to be able to facilitate southbound and northbound ap is why I Yang and virtual network service is going to continue investment there and I will talk more about it later also we want to resurrect the intent service or 10 domains and Brian will talk about this and then in order to facilitate enrolling in of platform applications will be working on gr pc and Kafka and model will talk about this so these are the major sort of pivotal themes and there will be covered in more detail in in a slides down down below so I think with one of those first ones being yen i'm going to ask patrick to cover this is patrick they're havin a beer okay alright so i think the the details were covered in in the morning session i'm just going to quickly summarize that the idea here is to enable generating of codecs for for consuming and producing xml for netconf interaction as well as jason codecs for northbound interactions with external applications and there will be additional en utility enhancements for 4 i'll be able to support applications on interactive external applications interacting with northbound services well I was totally baffled by that you know talk about talking about not interact interaction with devices that sounds like southbound not northbound yes it did i say northbound for interaction of the devices if i save shaun misspoke well the first item is gang enabled northbound API s and that seems like a really bizarre feature that I can't really ever want so I'm puzzled by it where do you read that other architectural runway items so la jolla so people want to use netcom for both talking to devices and people also want to be able to use net comp for their service models so application they want to model their application services and yang and then use the net combat north on protocol for configuring they're almost absent yes so so to clarify Bob so yes the Yang and that conf is specifically for southbound there is also ability to prescribe via yang sort of network centric service level interactions with on us is a platform for of platform applications and this is the northbound in its north on capacity we're going to be using yay for example confusing Donald's platform to configure all three VPN services using their free VPN model that's sort of the idea ok Oh perhaps the one of the the previous slide was not had some type on it I think I think right at this point and more or less ok ok for the network virtualization the proposed diver booze for hummingbirds is a draft document which describes the current design an approach is something people including yourself Bob have been requesting and also using that document the idea would be to solicit feedback and from community on the only existing design and approach and this will basically be just be used to augment the existing feedback and discussions that we've had in a priority to TST meetings that were concerned with this subject and the idea here is to continue development of the intent based implementation of the virtual network provider and then work with partners to explore alternate virtual network providers and this is where we would also like community to love us currently a sienna is leading the majority of the coding effort without guidance if there's no questions on this one we can probably move down line run so this size is primarily about the sentiment subsystem for the hummingbird time frame will be working to produce some documentation describing what intent domain means and what sort of our general approach is going to be we'd also like to solicit them coming back from the community on this design draft as well as some of the use cases that are interested in leveraging intent domains and then we'll continue to incubate the intent of Maine API specifically the service interfaces and some of the domain primitives as part of the hummingbird release the goal would be that for the I release the rubber hits the road hope we have an implementation of the framework will have a intent southbound to facilitate hierarchical or federated control at the intent level and hopefully support for at least one of the domain controllers and it would be great if people interested in this topic or have use cases that want to leverage the topics provide feedback and input and if there's interest in helping with the implementation or or the prototyping that would be welcome this one great thank you madam do you wanna cover the cord can you go to go to the check post oh yes sorry it's um there's a lag with good meaning ok we did switch here yeah not yet but I have the slide deck open so I can actually speak with that so so the main theme for both h and I areas this is going to be a better support for off platform applications and and also support for in-service upgrades so these are these are things there Thomas mentioned in his sort of priority slide um so in as part of a chili's one thing that you would like to be as part of that is kafka integration this is something that is being driven in collaboration with colleagues and this will provide a asynchronous interaction for off platform applications and it also provides the necessary scalability so that you know and run you know as many other platform applications as we can oh the grp integration part provides support for synchronous interaction with different on platform applications that are running on the owners cluster and and we plan to tackle at least like you know one half of this as part of a chili's and I I see that we will have this work for flow into I and that is where we want to actually have GRT support available publicly and again as part of I relays we will look into tackling the problem of supporting rolling in service upgrades where you can run multiple versions of oh no side by side as long as you know backwards compatibility is maintained and finally I have also included a an area where we could do more work as part of I which is providing support for you know debugging and you know sort of tracing a running system mostly from an operational standpoint so have listed a few areas where you know community folks anyone with relevant experience and time can step in and help again anyone who has done grp see related work earlier in the in their previous roles for knowing the previous projects we welcome that experience so for supporting portable serialization right now we use cryo to our core interactions and that is interesting area where someone can step in and see how we can ensure portability across different software versions oh and another area where we where we can't do enough work is you know stress testing and doing all the performance-related testing for distributed core I would like to highlight some of the work that Mareth and his team has done where they were able to run some testing to see how big a topology they can support on a single instance on us they were able to identify some bottlenecks in the link store which they were able to fix the type of work that I am talking about here and we have had few people ask about running to instance on us this is not something that we can do today just to clarify we can actually run to instance or no it's just that it will not be a highly variable cluster in the service that if one of those instances is down we can't really do any critical work on the other one so what I what I mean by two instance 10 is where you run this in an active backup mode where if the active fails the back up and take over and you know still maintain all the necessary functionality so if anyone wants to tackle this and has the time and the need to do it you know feel free to step in and we know take this project and finally this is something that I added just recently consistent map has a few api's which provide access to the entire map contents and especially as the size of the map rose and and especially when the maps are partitioned across different storage partitions these operations tend to get expensive yet at the same time they're there they're used heavily throughout the code base so this is something that you would like to optimize and provide some sort of support for a consistent map again if anyone wants to tackle this problem it's quite challenging so if you are looking for a challenge this is something that you can take up ok thank you madam yep oh I switch slides right now and it's moving to your territory Brian which who has the overlap with previous slide how much the core work and the northside interface work will both rely on some GRDC availability from an application or northbound perspective the interest here is enabling in service upgrades of all platform application also allowing some degree of latitude for northbound versioning right now the Virgin's have to match up pretty precisely for a platform on top applications for for the rest api and java api to be available so hopefully for hummingbird will be able to take advantage of erp cs4 for those apps that are off platform for the I release the interest is moving or improving the mechanisms for off platform applicators and registration and access control as well as considering the use of auto-generated objects like the grp see objects for our service api's so where we can have help in the community is it would be great if there are some people that want to run from applications with higher performance API the grp see api's and if there's someone who wants to help clean up the interaction application to go through when they when they registered ok hey yeah Brian um I have some noise here over the neighbors do you think you'll be able to take over the guidance from now on I'm sure or Sonny I can do that yeah I can do that but I don't have to talk to go to dinner I can do it guys come back go can do it yeah you can drive this life thing ok I'm gonna make it can I make your presenter because I'll need to mute myself yes you can make make me presenter yep the whole drive afford it never fails there's always an external noise somehow at most important 14 times it did the prey central rights go to you yet no but I'm going to take them good please thanks I ok so is this is this a slide that is next is a show with resource service I mean battery the performance I'm I'm keeps working on the performance improvement and who suffer from improvement correct three measures mismeasured the microbe a tracking is important thing so that I and I'm building micro benchmarking for the typical work rules for the bayous km/h framer good witches openjdk Makarov advanced river and through the performance improvement refactoring test coverage ease it was cool to make the refactoring safe so that I need to improve the cisco burridge because the test coverage poetry is not so good and ultra and also i was returning some minor idiomatic change to to make chorus I burden with a chorus I to redo the carotid body this for I believe I don't have specific items right now but if we have had a performance issue here i am working with that and all the community health continuous integration rag continuous metric correct and measurement and some like a dashboard page is a different hospital the preventive of to prevent results perform a progression in the future that's all my life okay thank you show Simon yeah hi this is Simon and for the hummingbird and I release deliverables we're basically get going to get back on track to complete the UI server-side modeling of the topology view basically this is to address the scalability issue and also sorry the scalability issue of large networks and taking into consideration the the subdivisions of networks into regions and then also we are aware that we need to make this modeling extensible so that application developers can include in their topology overlay additional levels of detail in terms of what nodes or devices are connected so for example we you know the the pond top technology with optical network terminators and the relationship to the the items that they connected in terms of community help there are a number of bug bounties that have been tagged and are available which would be great if someone with time and interest would like to pick those up that we agree at all so we have a large number of applications in the applications view there is opportunity to include a short description a custom icon and a URL link to documentation bill if you'd like to go to the next slide this is a screenshot of the grab that's okay this is a screenshot of the current application view and as you'll notice most of the applications have a default icon they all point to the same URL and they just have a description that is based on the title if you were to pop to the next slide you could see what is possible by creating a custom icon and more descriptive text of the application to give users of the product more information about what it is that they can install so we will be upgrading the the icon design guidance that we're putting together in terms of helping people to stick to the color palette that our graphic designer has come up with and so that should be coming out real soon that's about it excellent thank you so much yeah probably Luke is not not online it's a little late there so if somebody wants to hear Luca talk about his slides you can watch the recording that we have from this morning okay Brian developer experience so what this this project is about it is more of a loose collection of improvements that are targeted at improving the development experience on the platform and the developer onboarding to the platform so for hummingbird our plan is to complete the transition from the mated builds a buck including the deprecation of maven for the oh no score we'd like to improve the standalone multi-instance development environments 440 knows that's work that bob has been been driving forward for the past couple of releases we'd like to automate the verification of our releases and this is going to drive us towards more regular minor releases that are our sort of fill in between our major releases these sort of stable snapshots are going to enable off platform developers developers that are building on platform application to have more regular checkpoints so they don't have to build against that movie master this has been a request from teams like court and others we'd like to improve some documentation for the sort of module or subsystem level right now we have a lot of good javadoc at the API level and we have some summer view documentation but the proximate ation of the module and sub level is definitely macking we'd also like to fix almost packaging for sin able to work offline and also reevaluate the defaults and other sort of things we load up in craft there's some stuff that doesn't need to be done this is looking forward towards the eye release we'd like to improve both application dependency and application versioning mechanisms see if we can enable community access to some of the distributor donors test beds improve the onus out of the box box experience for both single instance and cluster try to address some enhancements to the oh noes development CLI alley and others have a lot of ideas about that and also continue to drive improvements in on a start of time so as I said before this is kind of a loose collection of improvements help on any and all fronts as possible and I will not be doing all these things but and Busan sort of largely going to be tracking the the overall progress of these improvements so if you have interest in these areas or others that are we fall on your default experience I to brenna you mentioned a little bit about developer documentation is there an overall documentation plan for a hummingbird is it on one of these slides like we've been talking in the sort of documentation through you know chats and and and on the phone of stocks mailing list and minnows devis people about sort of the the need to or the desire and really need for integrating documentation as part of the desert a sort of documentation you know plan and trying to actually move documentation for it is this is this going to happen for hummingbird or will it be deferred until later so we don't currently have a slide on it and we don't currently have an honor so if if you had interested in owning this area yeah I don't want to I think that's a big problem but I think collectively we should certainly I mean we do own this now and we're not doing a good job yeah so this bullet on your documentation framework loosely kind of get that some of the some of the issues you were talking about trying to make sure that documentation is at least at the modular subsequent level part of feature inclusion and feature enhancement but yeah hopefully the framework both covers the technical framework and also the community process I think the yeah I think one thing I really like to see us move forward on with criminal release planning is having documentation and I mean we have development and we have test planning that we currently seem to be kind of dropping the world as far as documentation planning saying you know what is it what are the doc acceptance criteria for the releases far as documentation or concerning what do we really want how you want to move the documentation for kind of big things that I hope we can address in the future so I'm going to comment on that one night so we have a kind of a documentation working group right Bob that you're on and I don't know and it's kind of like you know we also have a marketing working group and as all a bunch of work that is going on in the marketing working group and doesn't kind of show up here either so I'm assuming that there's some number of things that are happening in the documentation working group and that the documentation working group is going to reach out to the community and pull another community members and you're going to work on things that you think are important so there's also probably some things around these development items that we want people to to make visible that they're going to bring into the documentation stream so I said I'm feeling like it's kind of two separate things one is there's a set of improvements they all are working on in the working group and then there's also a set of things that are coming as a result of new features and is it I'm assuming it's a second one that you're asking about is what is it that's going to come in as new documentation for the new things that are happening is that true Oh kind of a little bit about them basically I guess maybe something to consider is it I hope for the I planning that yeah I guess the question is you know if doesn't you know how comprehensive is release planning is just talking about code changes or does it also deal with things like pressing and documentation and and I think I would argue that I think it's important that it to deal with that there should be testing and documentation planning for the release as well and I'm not sure how's it going to happen currently you know if we're all sort of doing this in our quote spare time unquote but it's something I can i hope i hope that you know to address your immediate thing I'd like I really like to see one thing we talked about in documentation working group is integrating documentation as part of the code review process that new code should not be accepted unless there is at least a minimum level of documentation for it and I think the same idea should apply to us features that every new features should not be accepted in unless there's a plan for a minimum level with documentation yep yep yeah it's good now I think you probably own agreement there but i think that there's this kind of two levels of ownership one is that we expect people to have ownership for providing documentation for what they do yeah that doesn't always happen but maybe we maybe we do need to provide some some more guidelines or some more tools for disallowing check-ins before it's done but that set of recommendations for what should be put in place I IC is coming out of the documentation working group and if and again that that working group has the ability to pull from you know the entire community to get help people are interested and to care a lot about the documentation so it would be great to have some you know another slide or two in here that even said hey here's the initiatives that the documentation working group is gonna do and maybe we can do that for next time and maybe we ought to do it for marketing as well yeah yeah I think that'd be good idea we'll turn it blue you make that happen for it it was aight i'll be great actually ok uh but as you say um every feature should come with a minimum level of documentation that i think i think we're going to recommend that as something that hopefully you can get consensus on its kind of requirement because that's something that will enable this other documentation be created but without it it's pretty impossible yep just like unit tests are eight exactly exactly okay Brian are you done with that sling em so next initiatives that we're talking about is our module loader program so we've had pretty good success with the module owner program as a mechanism for pulling in some experienced members of the community to help with the code review and the the merging of patch steps into parts of the code base and for hummingbirds there are a number of small bug fixes and some new features that have been hashed out the new features are in the link here that would like to see implemented this summer the other thing is we'd like to continue to expand the module lunar program to add new reviewers as new new folks come along the project and demonstrate their abilities both in encode and code review for I release we'd like to try to upstream this plugin to the yard community so that others who use Garrett can take advantage of it and also so that it falls under the Garrett maintance and then you know always continue as always try to continue to expand the program as new members come to the community and improve themselves so where we could use help is in the coding improvements most of the modular plugin has been written by me there's a few others that have looked at it but if you have an interest in participating in the development of garrett plugin definitely let me know and then as always there are suggestions for people that should be new module owners or program improvements feel free to reach out to myself thomas or david puzzle okay so that's that for that slide and then my next slide is a sort of a slide on being that good citizens of the open source community and we've got a number of projects that we have a upstream including Atomics open play j.felix there maven button so a lot of these projects we actually maintain our own forks for we're working to and we want to continue working towards up streaming these fixes the other projects both so that the upstream projects communities can benefit from them and also that we don't become too responsible for maintaining these fixes and forks ourselves and our goal is to reduce the number of necessary oh no specific Forks I mean to use upstream or possible and so if you happen to have interest in any of the upstream projects we certainly encourage you to to try to upstream there are changes work with those projects to do that and then when the changes are are there let us know so we can deprecated our bonus works okay thanks Brian okay do we have Murat online yeah all right hello.how watch we are doing the hummingbird fee in fact for the laksa Jen we enhanced the openflow 1 dot 52 yup still oxygen upstream so we now female voices continue to merge the upstream location to owners oxygen which also brian talks about maybe the individual we are using the we may use the upstream and we also updating to open flow some point interface to handle the autoblow 1 dot 5 message the aim is to only to handle the message not to handle all the new enhancements because the in the open flow i think in the next ATSC meeting yeah I we have to discuss what we have indan the open floor 1 dot fire there are lots of the enhancements for example a we have to handle the egress port processing we have to handle the multicultural flow monitoring and there is also big deal after the open floor one that Ford is also optical port and has been so here to discuss a how we merge the optical port enhancement in the nose at the total of one that five we have to discuss it this and the next release in the ironies we have to ollie these discussions we create Nene intense or we also have to the update the floor Rico rule policy with the NeNe enhancements that's all into this thing ok excellent gotcha okay in the next slide maybe some of them some of you are familiar with the aerial or in the am court this is the round slicing or the alley antivirus slicing for the airport so what we are doing we just creates a art prof right protocol now it's open source open source aerial protocol to the Sun what is interface and we also merge the application for the blue but in which we name the program the programmable run application to the on us so it can control and configure and creators right is slicing in the rough side this is for the encode and and for the future what we are trying to do it enhance the wireless slightly virus area in the open flow so what what is our aim not to use a aerial in the future we want to use the open flow with the wireless extension that's all all right very interesting thanks for it ok secretly a neuron is not online again ok so people want to hear about Nemo again you can go to the recording from this morning okay and I oh I think you're I've seen you there right yes ok I just know um so starting from the hummingbird release we actually planned a contributor to bonus the concept of actn and which is used to orchestrate control multi-domain multi-layer trafficking networks for both parent and optical networks which includes those that are traveling in a capable like a BLS TEF stp at OTN and of india and networks so basically n itself is the ongoing manic warming ietf standards for heretical sdn control and it uses IETF defined young models and protocols like tea set as standard interfaces between much it's functional box basically and in the ICT and architecture it has several building works like in the lowest level it has a massive demand controller which manages each of the acceptor domains and the next level is there as they as a multi domain service orchestrated also known as the super controller and the domain controller connects to the children super controller via the standard interface and am stressed topologies in Japan and tunnels data onto the super controller so to allow super controller to have an opium of the entire entire set of domains and to perform operations like a service orchestration are those domains so the the key benefit that AZT energy brings to develop insist you can bring a practical approach to enable heterogeneous packet and optical transport network control um over domains of whether it be it's valid being a bonus almost SDN controller control domains or anomalous domains or even legacy domains it can all be connected to the to the same super controller years interfaces and and also the the attraction between this multi multiple hierarchical controllers it allows it actually addresses controller scalability when it handles large scale packet and optical networks so as for the ass for the proposed the deliveries in the hummingbird deliver group we actually cause will focus on the topology management function basically uses the set of controllers and standard interface to to be able to collect and manage and display the overlay and underlay topologies between between the relationship between different levels of controllers so to do that the development in the IETF young model used not like the base topology model and the abstract eat solid model and we intend to use it as both northbound affairs cell phone interface and also the multi multi domain service of service coordinate coordinator that we will implement a team multi-domain t2 bodied analogy in the hummingbird typically released and also they basic virtual network manager application not to help define an app user requested virtual network demands and map it and by the doctors to map it to the affected and customized teen topologies exposed to abide by the vital multi-dimensions coordinator and on the interface and and also in addition to the young models will be supporting the PCF based interface pizza using pc LS which is also a IDF standard and also support for the hierarchical pc and on the domain controller level the basic and were also in this project will implement a basic network topology management function to allow a each of the domains to make a abstraction of its domain with necessary information like like connectivity matrix for our blocking switch and other the prime minister sergey data which is necessary for in super controller order m mvsc to calculate and math and set up internet services across those demands um so if you can switch to the to the next exit slide so basically in the in the upcoming IVs the concept is to to add tunnel support to allow soup allowed the load actn to use this hierarchy of controller to set up end to end tunnels across multiple domains and again the in the in the standard northbound and southbound interface with will implement support for absentee tunnels which is also a standard to draft energy of community and in mdsc to implement all the demand tunnel manager as well as well as required pass computation function to do tunnel provisioning and also on the t cell and to support preserve virtual network instantiation extensions and same for the domain control to implement and a abstract service metro to accept request of connection tunnel sediments from New Super control event and push the tunnel to be to be provisioned up across the network governments in this to me okay um I think that's it okay great thanks very much okay John so for QA in hummingbirds release we plan to first move that's just one able to fulfill for master brush L him the call for a shade as we want to continue dynamic country and network position has predicted know that one who we would like to test a state of activities athlete and then we also have a review and reset to a performance test and also for some long overdue performance NHA box auto repair work young objective positioning silicon yo I'm sorry oh yeah I didn't hear you yo okay okay okay okay hear me now I can hear you Oh for longer-term goals Frank we want to invest in other chronic Oh King work from of a device or tab and also else we want to do test cases for security motion photo performance and also 401 11.35 species and finally we will do a skit for coming recently with several 1000 virtualization configuration or going updates that's it ok great thank you you appreciate it let's see is this mark online again um what marks not here so i'll be talking in behalf ok thank you too ok so first of all I'll give initial focus will be on supporting the open road md bison service model we will need to collaborate with our way focuses a young new tools to make it that happen and the second item is the required feature to the intent framework to support the entity communication report in case which would be sort of when there's a failure will need to roll back to the original state kind of thing and we need to start considering how to model the protected pass and this is the one last item with the 10 deviation from the last the communities we need to continue on the refactoring the optical models that will be yeah thanks okay thank you too I'm guessing that Costas is not on see okay so you can hear Acosta said to say by looking to the recording from this morning um I'll be the same with gianna yep same account okay and do we have shrikant online yes okay sweetheart if if you want to mute shrink on through there I tickety's not there in the office would be gratis on okay all right we'll move on then okay okay John we hello hello oh thank you hello everyone over the next six months we will enhance network troubleshooting module and share our open exchange protocol idea which is a kind of hierarchical east-west interfaces supporting diverse controllers and saving control bandwidth by simplifying information the first one is the network troubleshooting module let's have a short introduction we consider that in traditional network if we want to be notified network trouble or detect them initiative lee we may achieve it with the help of some powerful but complex management protocol such as as an MP or some logs between devices such as this mark and then we may also need to deploy a huge network management platform so our idea is that we can design some special travel detection algorithms in the control plan and pass the information to them so that we can achieve travel detection functionality relatively easily well in the past we need may use of some Black's method to do that moreover we can obtain more detail in the device through some southbound protocol such as Nicole and obsd be so as to design advanced detection functionality meanwhile if we can use the southbound we can not only detect trouble but also remedy the trouble or isolate the trouble I think that will enhance the automation capability of the network in addition we can modularized the algorithm in the control plan make it flexible to use and convenient to upgrade in present we achieve simple and primary algorithms for routing loop checking and black hole chasing we will go ahead to enhance the algorithms and the architecture of the module and unify the interfaces for all types of dialogue diagnosis if there is a change welcome community to help us improve the algorithms together please go on next page thank you the other one is our idea of hierarchical east-west interfaces and open exchange protocol we divide controller into two kinds super controller and domain controller the super controller is in charge of traffic steering among domain networks and the domain controller and to report network information to the super and populate the traffic policy from the super to the domain network so network operators can gay and global network view and do some high-level optimizing in addition we design east-west interface as a protocol so that we can support diverse controllers besides this protocol can save control bandwidth by simplifying transmitting information to adapt for poor link state in present we have a successful expect experiment at our you controller and we plan to develop and test it at our owners in addition we will be happy to exchange I years with with ICO and a and H actn project that's all thank you great actually she can't got here just now so maybe you can go back to that slide I can do that thank you yep alright so familiar you take off oye court thanks for energox first court which is a project inside the cod solution and it is driven the cord release cycle so are calling them cause that's why i could not matter italy into the hummingbird library cycles here so here code is a unified monitoring platform inside of God framework that enables real-time dynamic observability for various Network elements that we have inside call it big creeper a recap of what we have done is for the phase one we have prototyped you're a code base platform on that shone from supports and two or detail collection engines some one is a lots of OpenStack kilometer based in the other one is is low bass guitar collection as you see in the picture on the right side the a cot platform collects various probe data from underlying Network elements it could be either infrastructure or it could be the service vienes running on that infrastructure in the northbound up a quad bike comic provides to interfere phase one is the quarry bits interface and other one is the publish-subscribe based interface or to enable our both predictive analytics and real-time analytics type of applications on the public square point so as part of a phase one we have demonstrated the platform capabilities by showing couple of use cases one of them is this service aware auto scaling that monitors the utilization of various cloud resources associated with a forest service and do the detail up or down based on the thresholds whenever the CPU values are cousins potential energy there are some real world examples like we have a financial called I political and economic theorist detection notification you can find more information about these uses in the resources that i have given on the right bottom or bottom part so it's going to what we are planning to do in the face to a baker so we wanted to refactor this architecture of a court so that it can be deplorable on inside our are various cod variants like this initial mobile and intercut enterprise car solution and also we wanted to build one key functionality of the a code this is the adaptive instrumentation this is the functional modules that will enable the applications to program what level of monitoring that they want on the underlying network so there are two parts of it the first part is there are already some folks existing in the network elements of the interface needs to enable applications to turn on turn off those ropes the second part of it is if there are no probs not are not existing in the network elements then they think a court should enable applications to dynamically insert these custom probes in the traffic path but this particular creature might bring some requirements on ponos again we don't have full clarity on this module that's why i don't have what type of requirements we need from the oh no skype a third point is we wanted to integrate a core platform with others or bone done it from devices that we have for example metronome smart Nick which are getting used inside and cod and we wanted to leverage the proc data or probes available inside those devices similarly the royalty match it openflow enabled oil team at six also you want utility great oh not control pain matrix some so yeon is working we wanted to integrate and make that those metrics measurements available to the application the last part is we are working on defining a use case on using this a code platform you need IM cord solution of by leveraging the probe data coming from the smart Nick come man smart mix but is like condition and avoidance for the encode service vienes as you can see there a lot of funny we've done in the face to and we take the community has been all time yeah that's great thanks / we can't all right Seungho fursona the basic virtual networks functionalities don't so far and now we are focusing on making the service more scalable unusable for hummingbird Gorillaz we are going to finish your implementing scalable gate 28 application which manages the group of multiple gateways and provide cash base two realms of the gateways okay they can be dynamically added or removed during the service running and actually this application is nearly dying the cordon line and we are now working on integrating to use excuses in Solna every module so now get windows of plays very important role for the star connectivity but the problem is it can be scaled out so our plan is to overcome this limitation with scalability application for the last one we are working on making music vol Turin addition to talk to stand around the deliver for deliverable for this item will be just a hot or experience of setting up router with Sona with obvious and support multi path we did and for the I really they will deliverable um since this caliber Gary application is the last piece of zona so we are playing to make food a more stable and easily deployable that's it for me oh thanks and son ok I think that's it is there anybody that had some slides it didn't get an opportunity to talk to them ok if not that's the end of the meeting thank you everybody for participating and special thanks to the people who did two rounds of presentations today really appreciated ok yep no later thank you favor bye bye you 